##API news - October 2017

Previous news: [June 2017: Time series and Forecasts](archive/news_201706.md)

Features
========

Deepnets
--------

*Affects:* REST API calls

*Description:* A new kind of classification or regression model
(`deepnet`) has been
added to BigML.

The `deepnet` is a kind of supervised machine learning method to solve
classification or regression problems. Uses Deep Neural Networks, where input
features are fed to a group of nodes called a layer. Each node is a function of
the input and layers can be stacked so that the output of one layer is the
input for the next one. The final output is the network prediction.


*Test samples:*

We use the `data/iris.csv` sample file
to build a dataset and use this
dataset to create, update and delete a `deepnet` resource and their related
`prediction` resource.

<a name="localDeepnet"></a>
Local Deepnet
-------------

*Affects:* It's a new object that encapsulates the JSON information downloaded
from a remote `deepnet` resource and adds a `predict` method
to create predictions locally. Similar to the `Model` object in Python
bindings.

*Description:* The local deepnet object will encapsulate the
information found in the `deepnet` attribute of the resource
JSON needed to compute the predictions. This attribute can contain a list of
layers, which describe a single network stored in its `network` attribute. It
can also contain an ensemble of networks. The information will be stored
in the `networks` attribute nested in `network`.

In order to apply the functions defined in each layer to your inputs, you will
first need to preprocess them to build a vector. The vector should contain the
values in your input data of every input field (ordered as in the
`input_fields` attribute). Numeric values are normalized according to
mean and standard deviation, text and items are analyzed by computing the
frequency of terms and categorical values are encoded using a one_hot format.
The information needed for such transformations is in the `preprocess`
attribute in the `network` structure. As an example of these transformations
you can see the [preprocess.py](https://github.com/bigmlcom/python/blob/master/bigml/laminar/preprocess.py) file. The transformation from your original input to the
preprocessed vector is done in the [fill_array](https://github.com/bigmlcom/python/blob/master/bigml/deepnet.py) method of the Python bindings.

Note that numeric missings are allowed in this kind of model. The
`missing_numerics` attribute controls how missings are handled in the
network. This affects the prediction computation. If `missing_numerics` is set
to `true` and a field of the training dataset had missing values
(`missing_count > 0`) the field adds
two elements to the vector built in `fill_array`. If the field is not missing
in your input data, the elements will be `[value, 0.0]`. If the field is
also missing in the input data, the elements will be `[0.0, 1.0]`.

With this preprocessing you get an vector which will be the
real input for the first layer of the network. Each node in the layer
will use different operations to create the output. They involve matrix
products and other functions like `sigmoid` or `softmax`. You could use any
library that supports that kind of operations in an efficient way, like
`numpy`. As an example of these functions and matrix operations you can check
the [math_ops.py](https://github.com/bigmlcom/python/blob/master/bigml/laminar/math_ops.py) file in the Python bindings.

As mentioned before, depending on the deepnet object you will have a single
set of layers or an ensemble of networks. In the first case, the function
that computes the prediction uses the `predict_single` method, while in the
second case, the `predict_list` method is applied. You can check the
[deepnet.py](https://github.com/bigmlcom/python/blob/master/bigml/deepnet.py)
file for details.

*Test samples:*

We can test the local deepnets and predictions using the `data/iris.csv` and
`data/spam.csv` sample files. See also the examples of
[tests](https://github.com/bigmlcom/python/blob/master/bigml/tests/test_36_compare_predictions.py)
in the Python bindings.
